README.rst, before:

==============
vmod_saintmode
==============

------------------------
Varnish Saintmode Module
------------------------

:Author: Dag Haavi Finstad
:Date: 2014-10-21
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 3

SYNOPSIS
========

import saintmode;

DESCRIPTION
===========

This VMOD provides saintmode functionality for Varnish 4.0. The code
is in part based on Poul-Henning Kamp's saintmode implementation in
Varnish 3.0.

Saintmode lets you deal with a backend that is failing in random ways
for specific requests. It maintains a blacklist per backend, marking
the backend as sick for specific objects. When the number of objects
marked as sick for a backend reaches a set threshold, the backend is
considered sick for all requests. Each blacklisted object carries a
TTL, which denotes the time it will stay blacklisted.

Saintmode in Varnish 4.0 is implemented as a director VMOD. We
instantiate a saintmode object and give it a backend as an
argument. The resulting object can then be used in place of the
backend, with the effect that it also has added saintmode
capabilities.

NB: This VMOD currently only works with Varnish master branch commit
9ec96da or later, with the patch provided in file
``0001-Add-a-struct-busyobj-param-to-dir-healthy.patch`` applied.

Example::

  backend b0 {
	.host = "foo";
	.port = "8080";
  }

  backend b1 {
  	.host = "bar";
  	.port = "8080";
  }

  sub vcl_init {
  	# Instantiate sm0, sm1 for backends b0, b1
  	new sm0 = saintmode.saintmode(b0, 10);
  	new sm1 = saintmode.saintmode(b1, 10);

	# Add both to a director. Use sm0, sm1 in place of b0, b1
  	new mydir = directors.random();
  	mydir.add_backend(sm0.backend(), 1);
  	mydir.add_backend(sm1.backend(), 1);
  }

  sub vcl_backend_fetch {
  	set bereq.backend = mydir.backend();
  }

  sub vcl_backend_response {
  	if (beresp.status == 500) {
  		# This marks the backend as sick for this specific
  		# object for the next 20s.
  		saintmode.blacklist(20s);
  		return (retry);
  	}
  }


FUNCTIONS
=========

saintmode.saintmode
-------------------

Prototype
::

	saintmode.saintmode(BACKEND b, INT threshold)

Description
	Constructs a saintmode director object. The ``threshold``
	argument sets the saintmode threshold, which is the maximum
	number of items that can be blacklisted before the whole
	backend is regarded as sick. Corresponds with the
	``saintmode_threshold`` parameter of Varnish 3.0.

Example
::

        sub vcl_init {
		new sm = saintmode.saintmode(b, 10);
	}


saintmode.backend()
-------------------

Prototype
::

	BACKEND saintmode.backend()

Description
	Used for assigning the backend from the saintmode object.

Example
::

	sub vcl_backend_fetch {
		set bereq.backend = sm.backend();
	}

blacklist()
-----------

Prototype
::

	VOID blacklist(DURATION expires)

Description
	Marks the backend as sick for a specific object. Used in
	vcl_backend_response. Corresponds to the use of
	``beresp.saintmode`` in Varnish 3.0. Only available in
	vcl_backend_response.

Example
::

	sub vcl_backend_response {
		if (beresp.http.broken-app) {
			saintmode.blacklist(20s);
			return (retry);
		}

	}

INSTALLATION
============

This is an saintmode skeleton for developing out-of-tree Varnish
vmods available from the 3.0 release. It implements the "Hello, World!" 
as a vmod callback. Not particularly useful in good hello world 
tradition,but demonstrates how to get the glue around a vmod working.

The source tree is based on autotools to configure the building, and
does also have the necessary bits in place to do functional unit tests
using the varnishtest tool.

Usage::

 ./configure VARNISHSRC=DIR [VMODDIR=DIR]

`VARNISHSRC` is the directory of the Varnish source tree for which to
compile your vmod. Both the `VARNISHSRC` and `VARNISHSRC/include`
will be added to the include search paths for your module.

Optionally you can also set the vmod install directory by adding
`VMODDIR=DIR` (defaults to the pkg-config discovered directory from your
Varnish installation).

Make targets:

* make - builds the vmod
* make install - installs your vmod in `VMODDIR`
* make check - runs the unit tests in ``src/tests/*.vtc``

In your VCL you could then use this vmod along the following lines::
        
        import saintmode;

        sub vcl_deliver {
                # This sets resp.http.hello to "Hello, World"
                set resp.http.hello = saintmode.hello("World");
        }

HISTORY
=======

This manual page was released as part of the libvmod-saintmode package,
demonstrating how to create an out-of-tree Varnish vmod.

For further saintmodes and inspiration check out the vmod directory:

    https://www.varnish-cache.org/vmods

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same license as the
libvmod-saintmode project. See LICENSE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Varnish Software

Commit message:

Updated to reflect recent changes in Varnish master.

README.rst, after:

==============
vmod_saintmode
==============

------------------------
Varnish Saintmode Module
------------------------

:Author: Dag Haavi Finstad
:Date: 2014-10-28
:Version: 1.0
:Manual section: 3

SYNOPSIS
========

import saintmode;

DESCRIPTION
===========

This VMOD provides saintmode functionality for Varnish 4.0. The code
is in part based on Poul-Henning Kamp's saintmode implementation in
Varnish 3.0.

Saintmode lets you deal with a backend that is failing in random ways
for specific requests. It maintains a blacklist per backend, marking
the backend as sick for specific objects. When the number of objects
marked as sick for a backend reaches a set threshold, the backend is
considered sick for all requests. Each blacklisted object carries a
TTL, which denotes the time it will stay blacklisted.

Saintmode in Varnish 4.0 is implemented as a director VMOD. We
instantiate a saintmode object and give it a backend as an
argument. The resulting object can then be used in place of the
backend, with the effect that it also has added saintmode
capabilities.

NB: This VMOD currently only works with Varnish master branch commit
418cea5 or later. The required patches will be part of the next
Varnish 4.0 release.

Example::

  backend b0 {
	.host = "foo";
	.port = "8080";
  }

  backend b1 {
  	.host = "bar";
  	.port = "8080";
  }

  sub vcl_init {
  	# Instantiate sm0, sm1 for backends b0, b1
  	new sm0 = saintmode.saintmode(b0, 10);
  	new sm1 = saintmode.saintmode(b1, 10);

	# Add both to a director. Use sm0, sm1 in place of b0, b1
  	new mydir = directors.random();
  	mydir.add_backend(sm0.backend(), 1);
  	mydir.add_backend(sm1.backend(), 1);
  }

  sub vcl_backend_fetch {
  	set bereq.backend = mydir.backend();
  }

  sub vcl_backend_response {
  	if (beresp.status == 500) {
  		# This marks the backend as sick for this specific
  		# object for the next 20s.
  		saintmode.blacklist(20s);
  		return (retry);
  	}
  }


FUNCTIONS
=========

saintmode.saintmode
-------------------

Prototype
::

	saintmode.saintmode(BACKEND b, INT threshold)

Description
	Constructs a saintmode director object. The ``threshold``
	argument sets the saintmode threshold, which is the maximum
	number of items that can be blacklisted before the whole
	backend is regarded as sick. Corresponds with the
	``saintmode_threshold`` parameter of Varnish 3.0.

Example
::

        sub vcl_init {
		new sm = saintmode.saintmode(b, 10);
	}


saintmode.backend()
-------------------

Prototype
::

	BACKEND saintmode.backend()

Description
	Used for assigning the backend from the saintmode object.

Example
::

	sub vcl_backend_fetch {
		set bereq.backend = sm.backend();
	}

blacklist()
-----------

Prototype
::

	VOID blacklist(DURATION expires)

Description
	Marks the backend as sick for a specific object. Used in
	vcl_backend_response. Corresponds to the use of
	``beresp.saintmode`` in Varnish 3.0. Only available in
	vcl_backend_response.

Example
::

	sub vcl_backend_response {
		if (beresp.http.broken-app) {
			saintmode.blacklist(20s);
			return (retry);
		}

	}

INSTALLATION
============

This is an saintmode skeleton for developing out-of-tree Varnish
vmods available from the 3.0 release. It implements the "Hello, World!" 
as a vmod callback. Not particularly useful in good hello world 
tradition,but demonstrates how to get the glue around a vmod working.

The source tree is based on autotools to configure the building, and
does also have the necessary bits in place to do functional unit tests
using the varnishtest tool.

Usage::

 ./configure VARNISHSRC=DIR [VMODDIR=DIR]

`VARNISHSRC` is the directory of the Varnish source tree for which to
compile your vmod. Both the `VARNISHSRC` and `VARNISHSRC/include`
will be added to the include search paths for your module.

Optionally you can also set the vmod install directory by adding
`VMODDIR=DIR` (defaults to the pkg-config discovered directory from your
Varnish installation).

Make targets:

* make - builds the vmod
* make install - installs your vmod in `VMODDIR`
* make check - runs the unit tests in ``src/tests/*.vtc``

In your VCL you could then use this vmod along the following lines::
        
        import saintmode;

        sub vcl_deliver {
                # This sets resp.http.hello to "Hello, World"
                set resp.http.hello = saintmode.hello("World");
        }

HISTORY
=======

This manual page was released as part of the libvmod-saintmode package,
demonstrating how to create an out-of-tree Varnish vmod.

For further saintmodes and inspiration check out the vmod directory:

    https://www.varnish-cache.org/vmods

COPYRIGHT
=========

This document is licensed under the same license as the
libvmod-saintmode project. See LICENSE for details.

* Copyright (c) 2011-2014 Varnish Software
